Java Virtual Machine (JVM):

The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is an essential component of the Java platform.
It is responsible for executing Java bytecode, which is the compiled form of Java source code.
The JVM provides a runtime environment for Java applications to run on different operating systems.
It abstracts the underlying hardware and operating system details, allowing Java programs to be platform-independent.

Java Development Kit (JDK):

The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development kit that includes tools and libraries for developing Java applications.
It is a superset of the JVM and contains everything needed to develop, compile, and run Java programs.
The JDK includes the Java compiler (javac) to compile Java source code into bytecode, as well as other tools for debugging, documentation generation, and more.

Java Runtime Environment (JRE):

The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is a subset of the JDK and is required to run Java applications.
It includes the JVM and all the necessary libraries and files needed to execute Java programs.
The JRE does not include the development tools like the compiler (javac).

Running Java Programs in CMD:

To run a Java program in the command prompt (CMD), follow these steps:


Install the JDK:

Download and install the JDK from the official Oracle website or any other trusted source.
Make sure to set the JAVA_HOME environment variable to the JDK installation directory.
Write the Java code:

Create a new Java file with a .java extension, e.g., MyProgram.java.
Write your Java code in this file using a text editor or an Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
Compile the Java code:

Open the command prompt (CMD).
Navigate to the directory where your Java file is located using the cd command.
Compile the Java file using the javac command followed by the filename with the .java extension.
javac MyProgram.java
Run the Java program:

After successful compilation, use the java command followed by the class name (without the .class extension) to run the Java program.
java MyProgram
